_Reflection Bindings_

I used my IO day for this week's readings, so I think technically I am excused from a reflection for this week. But I was interested in 
some of the discussions I observed, and so I went back to read a couple of the pieces.

When I first told my family about this class, my dad was super interested in what I'd be learning. I think when most people talk about 
"building books" the go-to example variable is the binding. My dad said he also wanted to learn about book bindings, so I plan on filling
him in. During our classtime that we spent creating books with waxed thread and sheets of paper I realized how sismple a binding could be. 
I always imagined an intricate thread down the spine of a novel, but it can really be done quite simply with a few tools, paper and string.
Our little booklets were bound quite sturdily. I've since seen books of similar size bound in similar ways. One artist book from our visit
to the archives had an even simpler binding of waxed thread. Getting the hands-on tool experience broadened my perception of book bindings
and how they can define the structure of a book. 

On the other hand, in *Baxter's Prucusts*, Chestnutt writes that for collectors "fine binding is a desideratum". Once I found out what that
meant (something needed or wanted) it made sense that the more sophisticated books require a higher quality of structure support. Value 
comes not only with content, but with the physical codex as well. How a book ages contributes to the price a collector puts on it. 
Sophisticated bindings go a long way to keep the codex intact. Breaking down the book into separate parts is an interesting way to 
critique it. During my book report I worked with a quote from "Hollowbound Book", which was narrated by a newly liberated book binding.
As Professor Cordell pointed out, the "hollow" is the space that forms in old books between the spine and the pages when opened. It was 
interesting to give that space agency and intelligence, since it is quite literally nothing, yet is such a critical part of a book's 
structure. 

images/hollow.jpg

On another  note, I engaged with *Letterpress Goes for a Hike: The Printed Walk*. Lindsay Schmittle created a series of letterpress prints
about an extended backpacking trip on the Appalachian Trail. Being from Vermont, I have hiked much of the Long Trail she metnions in the 
article. I've spent probably a total of about 2 weeks backpacking through the same woods she writes about, and one of my biggest takeaways
was learning the value of journaling. I brought a small notebook that I would reflect in at the end of each day - highlights, lowlights, 
interesting people, or beautiful sights. I found that critical to remembering why each day was so much fun. Schmittle's project takes that
to the next level. She plans on distributing the prints wanting to "influence an increase of respect for our planet". I have so much
respect for her work, combining personal reflections with physical parts of the trek with an agenda to increase awareness and 
responsibility. As for the letterpress aspect, the example images of her work are truly beautiful, and I noticed they are bound similarly 
with wax string. This sort of homemade book is encouraging to me. It helps me realize that if I have the simple reseources and motivation I 
can create something just as impactful in my own garage.
