_Reflective Entry - E-Lit 2_

This week increased our exposure to some of the broadest interpretations of a book we've encountered. Progressively throughout the semester the studied projects have become less and less concrete. We're at the point where I'm bouncing ideas off my personal definition and seeing what sticks.

Turning the page from the previous week when we learned about Twine, *With Those We Love Alive* took us on an interactive mythical 
adventure, with rather grim imagery. Each decision we made could either open up a new pathway to advance the story or circle us back to the 
other possible decisions. Famously used to map out *Bandersnatch*, Twine lends itself to organizing complex story structures and new technological avenues. But is a Twine script inherently a book? I don't think so. Code needs more than just linked structure to be a book in my opinion. The code first needs an interface, which can also be produced by Twine. If a reader can absorb the content of the code that's one step closer. The Twine script must also be sufficiently developed and have a purpose. Senseless connections of words to figure out the software workings, like I produced during class, does not create a book. Some purpose that creates a connection between author and reader needs to be present. This can be seen throughout *WTWLA* in commentary about self-care and its place in society.

Twitterbots offer a similar example of borderline "books". They are Twitter accoutns that have beenn coded to produce automated tweets. They can create various sentence strucutures based off key words, compile other people's tweets, post at a specified frequency, and do so much more. Inspiration for my bot arose from a twitter bot that posted every three minutes that a slave would have just been sold in the antebellum South. Scrolling through the seemingly endless script was overwhelming, it was an illustration of the sheer size of the slave trade. I took a similar route, tackling an environmental problem rather than a human rights issue. I seeded the bot with words from random cool shark facts I found online, as well as with sad but true facts about shark depopulation. Every six hours the bot tweets a randomized, nonsense fact about how awesome sharks are, followed up by a totally true fact about how humans are killing them.
