_Reflective - E-Literature_

Without much previous exposure to E-lit, *What Football Will Look Like in the Future* kind of blew my mind. I'm a huge football fan and
play a similar sport in Ultimate Frisbee. I'm a firm believer that someday the growing, minimal-contact disc sport based on spirited play 
will become more popular than football. When I first read the title I got excited about the possibilities it could contain. Little did I 
know. This was my first time reading something that felt impossible to translate to a codex structure. Elements of time, video, graphics
and sound transcend the project beyond a piece of paper. Lacrecia Evans' despair when her potential first 500 football grab was framed 
by colorful images, statlines and feaux news stories that had the reader itching to scroll faster and faster down the page. Nine's 
celestial loneliness similarly translates throughout the visual aid of scrolling down so many calendars. The computer screen interface
provides a unique opportunity for emotion in a story about football that I haven't necessarily felt through a codex.

While the electronic format creates plenty of new areas for exploration it comes with some undeniable drawbacks. Firstly accessibility 
isn't easy. Readers need a computer and wifi connection to read each page of the entire book. Unlike a codex that can be brought and read 
literally anywhere in the world, *WFWLLITF* is fairly resource-demanding. It's portability is a dichotomy. On one hand it can be sent to 
whoever in the world via hyperlink, but it's only accessible by those recipients with computer and internet access which are not very
portable. In the Jabr article he touches on the temporary feeling of e-lit: "many people do not feel much ownership of e-books because of 
their impermanence and intangibility". He refers to the idea that the literature could be erased with the click of a mouse and we haven't
built enough of an archival infrastructure to store the creations like we can in a library. I would counter to say our society is 
progressing further with that technological system, and soon it might be even more permanent than paper. Paper can be burned and is 
subjected to more natural damage from the elements. Internet literature has the unique ability to be stored in a cloud, thus (ironically) 
avoiding weather and erosion.

Besides advantages and limitations e-lit can also be viewed as a technological progression. From *Agrippa* in the 90's all the way to the 
recent *WFWLLITF* many modes and types of e-books have been created. Some could be printed off and put into codex form easily (like from a 
kindle), others cannot separate code from content. Considering we began with cuneiform tablets and evolved through hieroglyphics, scrolls 
and the printing press, the computer still feels like the next big thing. E-lit is only one stop on an evolution timeline and before we can 
judge the entirety of e-lit we have to consider where it might lead us. Interactive books like *Bandersnatch* or virtual reality still have 
a fresh feeling. Technology will appeal more and more to our different senses and desires. While paper will always play an enormous role in 
the definition/history of the book, our evolving society will give rise to brand new exciting ideas.
