Dragon Prayer Book Reflection

I went to the Dragon Prayer Book exhibition event on October 3rd and was interested to learn about how we translate medieval letterforms 
to modern text. The student lead on the project and professor introduced the Prayer Book, which I recognized from our class time in the 
archives. That day the text seemed indecipherable, full of scribbles and drawings I could only understand if I was 500 years old. We 
learned the basic letterforms found in the book; about half of them could be reasonably compared to the characters I learned growing up. 
The others had almost no resemblance, or worse, looked like other letters (ex. S looked like R). This was partly due to how the pen was
held back then. Scribes wrote at a constant pen angle of 45 degrees, and of course with pens that were much different than our modern
Pilots. I hadn't really thought about the angle at which we write before, but it makes total sense that characters would be designed to
match the commonly accepted writing style. 

I worked with 3 others at our table to decipher lines of a prayer. We did fairly well with the individual letters but ran into trouble at 
the ligatures and connected letters. Most comically upsetting was an M shape that was very clearly an M! But it was somehow a “circ” with 
half a u attached to the end. Abbreviations were the most frustrating part of the entire process. A simple dot above or to the side of a 
letter meant implied letters. While I now realize that’s what we use abbreviations for in English, it was much more difficult to decipher 
abbreviations in Latin. I decided to do some research into the development of abbreviations and why we use certain ones. Thehistoryvault.co
described abbreviations as a "tug of war between laziness and combrehensibility". They write that letter forms had guidelines created by
the physical tools and means of writing. Runes were created because straight lines were easier to draw in stone than curved ones. It dawned 
on me that singular unique characters arose from abbreviations (symbols representing entire phrases/words), and not the other way around. 

The website also mentioned that medieval scribes "abbreviated everything they could get their hands on". This hyperbole had some truth to 
it, as we discovered while deciphering the prayer book. A specific abbreviation that comes from their Latin is the ampersand: "&". The 'e'
and the 't' from the Latin word "et" (meaning "and") eventually morphed together into a single symbol so commonly used in today's society.
The ampersand is one of my favorite symbols to write with a pen, so learning about the history behind it from the prayer book was really
fascinating to me. Abbreviations are so often seen as time-savers for the lazy texter, or crossword clues and mnenomics for the 
overacheivers. But I would argue that the evolution of writing shows that language is inextricably human. The ways in which we use language
create and evolve it, and so I would not be surprised to see common text abbreviations become more and more embedded in our everyday life. 

At the end of the event, we all read the prayer aloud together. We learned the prayer was typically spoken by women to ward off the devil. 
It was maybe the first time I’ve read full sentences of Latin out loud which was an interesting experience. My language skills gained from 
my Spanish minor certainly helped with pronunciation. At the end of the prayer (which sounded more like a chant) the lights began to 
flicker and dim eerily… I’m 90% sure it was a prank but I enjoyed the finishing touch.
