_Reflective Entry - E-Lit 2_

This week increased our exposure to some of the broadest interpretations of a book we've encountered. Progressively throughout the 
semester the studied projects have become less and less concrete. We're at the point where I'm bouncing ideas off my personal definition 
and seeing what sticks.

Turning the page from the previous week when we learned about Twine, *With Those We Love Alive* took us on an interactive mythical 
adventure, with rather grim imagery. Each decision we made could either open up a new pathway to advance the story or circle us back to 
the other possible decisions. Famously used to map out *Bandersnatch*, Twine lends itself to organizing complex story structures and new 
technological avenues. But is a Twine script inherently a book? I don't think so. Code needs more than just linked structure to be a 
book in my opinion. The code first needs an interface, which can also be produced by Twine. If a reader can absorb the content of the 
code that's one step closer. The Twine script must also be sufficiently developed and have a purpose. Senseless connections of words to 
figure out the software workings, like I produced during class, does not create a book. Some purpose that creates a connection between 
author and reader needs to be present. This can be seen throughout *WTWLA* in commentary about self-care and its place in society.

Twitterbots offer a similar example of borderline "books". They are Twitter accoutns that have beenn coded to produce automated tweets. 
They can create various sentence strucutures based off key words, compile other people's tweets, post at a specified frequency, and do 
so much more. Inspiration for my bot arose from a twitter bot that posted every three minutes that a slave would have just been sold in 
the antebellum South. Scrolling through the seemingly endless script was overwhelming, it was an illustration of the sheer size of the 
slave trade. I took a similar route, tackling an environmental problem rather than a human rights issue. I seeded the bot with words 
from random cool shark facts I found online, as well as with sad but true facts about shark depopulation. Every six hours the bot tweets 
a randomized, nonsense fact about how awesome sharks are, followed up by a totally true fact about how humans are killing them and the 
negative effects involved. This simple twitterbot fulfills both the interface and purpose criteria I laid out earlier. A stream of 
tweets can be considered a book when taken as a wholistic work, developed to convey a purpose to the reader. A unique aspect of the bot 
that we haven't really encountered yet is the randomization. Instetad of being crafted by the human mind, the content is generated from 
seed. I think designing specific seed words and phrases gives the author more license over the product than the randomizer, making it 
feel more like a book to me. The next logical question that arises is: "what about artifical intelligence that creates a book?" AI seems 
like the code IS the author, meaning the content is completely "randomized" without human influence. But I would argue the creator of 
the AI is still the author. AI can't be isolated from the intricacies in the code. In this case the coder created the AI to write. The 
coder had to provide detailed instruction on how to do that, in the same way I instructed my twitterbot. So I believe if an AI creates a 
book, the author is actually the coder of the AI. 

Throughout this course our material has evolved along with our personal definitions of a book. We have to look backwards and learn our 
history before we can improve upon it. If we do, our scientific and literary future have only the bounds of creativity. But there are 
other lessons to be learned as well. Learning about the codex has made me think about the saying: If it ain't broke don't fix it. And 
learning about some of the projects enabled by technology has me thinking about if we SHOULD do something just because we CAN. Finally, 
I'd like to end my reflective fieldbook with a quote from the movie *Ex Machina*, which centers around the human aspects of artificial 
intelligence. 

  "One day the AIs are going to look back on us the same way we look at fossil skeletons on the plains of Africa. An upright ape living in dust with crude language and tools, all set for extinction"
